# IAM Introduction: Users, Groups, Policies
#IAM 
## IAM
IAM stands for **Identity and Access Management**.
Default user access control system under AWS.
An Account, User or Group under this system is known as a **Principal**.
## Users
Used to create Users, **including Root User**.
Users are people.
Each person in a team should only have one User account.
## Groups
Users can be grouped into **Groups**.
**Groups can only contain Users, and cannot contain other Groups**.
**Users can be part of more than one Group**.
## Policies
Principals can be assigned JSON documents called Policies.
Policies define the permissions of the Principals.
Keep in mind the **Principle of Least Privilege**, do not assign Principal more permissions than they absolutely need to do carry out their responsibilities.
# IAM Policies
#IAM 
When a policy is applied to a Group, each user in that Group will **inherit** that policy.
If a user does not belong to a Group, they can be assigned **inline policies** which only apply to one user.
If a user is part of more than one group, they will inherit permissions from **both Groups**.
## IAM Policy Structure
A policy is a **JSON document** that contains the following components:
- **Version**: Policy language version,
- **Id**: Policy identifier (optional),
- **Statement**: Permissions (can contain one or multiple).
### Policy Statements
A policy statement consists of the following components:
- **Sid**: Statement identifier (optional),
- **Effect**: Allow / Deny,
- **Principal**: Entity to which this policy is applied,
- **Action**: List of actions this policy allows or denies,
- **Resource**: List of resources to which the actions apply to,
- **Condition**: When this policy is in effect (optional).
## Policy Example
```
{
	"Version": "2012-10-17",
	"Id": "S3-Account-Permissions",
	"Statement": [
		{
			"Sid": "1",
			"Effect": "Allow",
			"Principal": {
				"AWS": ["arn:aws:iam::123456789012:root"]
			},
			"Action": [
				"s3:GetObject",
				"s3:PutObject"
			],
			"Resource": ["arn:aws:s3:::mybucket/*"]
		}
	]
}
```
# IAM MFA Overview
#IAM 
## Security Policies
The first step to improving security is to define a **Password Policy**.
In a Password Policy, you can define things like:
- Minimum Password Length,
- Character Type Requirements,
- Password Changing Permissions,
- Password Expiration Settings,
- Password Reuse Policies.
## MFA
**Multi-Factor Authentication**.
Changes login requirements to include a password (**Something you know**), and a security device (**Something you have**).
Allowed MFA devices are as follows:
- Virtual MFA Device (Google Authenticator, Authy, etc.)
- U2F Security Key (YubiKey etc.)
- Hardware Key Fob (Gemalto etc.)
- AWS GovCloud Key Fob (SurePassID, etc.)
# AWS Access Keys, CLI and SDK
#Access-Keys #Management-Console #CLI #SDK
There are three ways to access AWS:
- **AWS Management Console** (Protected by **password + MFA**)
- **AWS Command Line Interface** (**CLI**) (Protected by **access keys**)
- **AWS Software Developer Kit** (**SDK**) (Protected by **access keys**)
## Access Keys
Access Keys are generated through the AWS Console.
Users manage their own Access Keys.
Access Keys should be treated like passwords.
- **Access Key ID ~ Username**
- **Secret Access Key ~ Password**
Example:
- **Access Key ID**: AKIASK4E37PV4983d6C
- **Secret Access Key**: AZPN3zojWozWCndljhB0Unh8239albzbzO5fqqkZq
## CLI
The CLI gives direct access to public APIs of AWS services, allows the employment of scripts, and is **open-source**.
## SDK
Language specific **set of libraries** that grant access to service APIs.
Supports the following languages:
- C++
- Go
- Java
- JavaScript
- Kotlin
- .NET
- Node.js
- PHP
- Python
- Ruby
- Rust
- Swift
There is also a **mobile version of the SDK** that is compatible with both Android and iOS.
Furthermore, there is an **IoT Device SDK** that supports Embedded C, Arduino, etc.``
# AWS CloudShell
#IAM  #CloudShell
An alternative to the AWS CLI is AWS CloudShell.
This service is **not available in all regions**.
Allows command execution with currently logged-in IAM User.
Nicer UI than standard CLI terminal.
# IAM Roles for AWS Services
#IAM #EC2 #Lambda #CloudFormation 
Some AWS services will need to perform actions on our behalf.
These services will need to be assigned permissions, just like Users or Groups.
These are another kind of Principal.
For example, IAM Roles can be assigned to EC2 Instances (Virtual servers).
Some common uses for IAM Roles are as follows:
- EC2 Instances
- Lambda Functions
- CloudFormation
# IAM Security Tools
#IAM #Credentials-Report #Access-Advisor
At the account level, a IAM Credentials Report can be created that lists all your accounts' users and their credential status.
At the user level, IAM Access Advisor can be used to show the service permissions granted to a user and when those services were last accessed.
# IAM Guidelines & Best Practices
#IAM #Access-Advisor #Credentials-Report #Access-Keys #CLI #SDK 
- Do not use root account except for AWS account setup
- One person = one User
- Assign users to groups and manage permissions at the group level
- Create a strong password policy
- Enforce MFA
- Create Roles for AWS services
- Use Access Keys for programmatic access (CLI / SDK)
- Audit account permissions using IAM Credentials Report and IAM Access Advisor
- Treat IAM Users like accounts (Do not share)
- Treat Access Keys like passwords
# IAM Summary
#IAM #Principals #Users #Groups #Policies #Roles #Security #Permissions #Authentication #Multi-Factor-Authentication #CLI #SDK #AWS-CLI #AWS-SDK #AWS-Access-Advisor #Credentials-Report #Management-Console 
- Users: Mapped to person, has password for AWS Console
- Groups: Groups of users only
- Policies: JSON documents that outline permissions for principals
- Roles: Permissions for AWS Services
- Security: MFA + Password Policy
- AWS CLI
- AWS SDK
- Access Keys
- Permissions auditing using Credentials Report and IAM Access Advisor